# Dev box

Your Dev box is where your code is built and executed, whether that's a dedicated server or your laptop. It runs the _API_ and _CLI_ components.

## 1. Install the components

First let's install the CLI:

```bash
curl -sSf https://get.intecture.io | sh -s -- cli
```

If you plan on creating projects in Rust, the API is provided as a Cargo crate. Otherwise, you'll need to install the shared library and bindings as well:

```bash
curl -sSf https://get.intecture.io | sh -s -- api
```

## 2. Install dependencies

When creating a new project, the _CLI_ also initialises a new Git repository. To do that, we need `git`, which you can install via your package manager.

Also, now you should install your language dependencies, such as compilers, interpreters, package managers etc.

## 3. Your first project

Now let's setup your Intecture project. This is where all your code and data will live, and it's super easy thanks to the Intecture CLI (`incli`) that we installed earlier:

Pick a directory to store your Intecture project(s). I'd suggest your home directory is a good starting point.

```bash
cd /path/to/projects
# Or in my opinion...
cd ~
```

Next, create a project skeleton, substituting `<project>` for the name of your project, and `<lang>` for the programming language you'll be using:

```bash
incli project init <project> <lang>
cd <project>
```

Ok, remember that user certificate we created when we installed the _Auth_ server? Time to dig that up and copy it to `./user.crt`.

At the same time, we'll need a copy of the _Auth_ server's public key so we can authenticate requests to it. Connect to your _Auth_ server and copy the certificate at `/etc/intecture/auth.crt_public` to `./auth.crt`.

> If you're wondering where `auth.crt_public` came from, it was generated by the _Auth_ server on first run.

Finally, let's edit the project's `project.json`, which has some example values that need changing. Set `auth_server` to the hostname/IP address of your _Auth_ server, `auth_api_port` to the _Auth_ server's `api_port` and `auth_update_port` to the _Auth_ server's `update_port`.

> You can find the `api_port` and `update_port` in the _Auth_ service's config file: `[/usr/local]/etc/intecture/auth.json`.
